---
layout: post
title: "Site Redesign 2015"
summary: "It's that time of year again. Let's have a look at how the 2015 redesign of my personal site went down."
redirect_from: "/blog/site-redesign-2015"
---

So the annual site redesign has come up again. This is how it went down.

### An Iterative Process Where Perfection Is Impossible

Inspired by [Jen Simmons’ post from back in February 2013](http://jensimmons.com/writing/minimum-shippable), I decided to follow a similar approach to this year’s design.

I’m fully aware of one of my major weaknesses, which is that I am my own worst client. I find it almost impossible to design for myself. This seems to be a fairly common problem for designers.

I’ve tackled this by forcing myself to keep it simple and iterate over time. I’ve launched a minimum viable product today and I plan to improve on it over time. This has been a very refreshing approach.

This site is nowhere near perfect and I doubt I’ll ever achieve the ridiculously high standards that I set myself to be honest. This design is a lot better that last year’s version though. That I am sure about.

### A Focus On Blogging

20 posts by the end of 2015. That is the target I've set for myself. I really enjoy writing and I plan to keep it up.

A couple of years ago, I used to write CSS and JavaScript tutorials. I canned those because I lost interest in writing about that sort of stuff. I’ve set myself a much wider subject area now, which I hope will keep my interest levels high.

The site design is completely geared towards blog posts. For the actual post view, I was inspired by Medium’s super clean UI. The article is the focal point, so I’ve removed everything that could distract the audience. I’m hoping that this will increase engagement and people will find the content easy to read.

### As Always, Typography Is Key

I personally think that typography is one of the most important aspects of a design. Bad typography can destroy an otherwise lovely design. I probably spend most of my time sweating over typography when I’m designing.

I’ve chosen [Montserrat](https://www.google.com/fonts/specimen/Montserrat) as my heading font as it’s clean, legible and provides high impact for large titles. I’ve used this for aside content such as tooltips and also for the main navigation.

For the main copy areas, I’ve gone with my old favourite, Georgia. For as long as I can remember, I’ve used Georgia as my main copy font for my personal site. I absolute love how easy it is to read and how much character it brings to a design.

I’ve gone with a large copy font-size and large leading ratio this time around too. The main copy sections are a 1.9 leading multiple of the font size. This should hopefully make paragraphs easier to read.

### Goodbye Wordpress, Hello Kirby

I’ve used Wordpress to power my personal site for a few years now. I’ve usually taken a lot of pleasure out of making a lightweight theme and reducing the bloat wherever I can. This time around, I wanted to try something new. 

So far, [Kirby](http://getkirby.com/) has been an absolute pleasure to work with. I managed to get the CMS completely setup with all templates within around 4 hours. This for me is way quicker than Wordpress theme development. The other thing that doesn’t go unnoticed is that it is lightning fast. The fact that it is a flat-file CMS is probably the major factor in play here.

People probably think I’m mental for focussing on blogging and using Kirby as my CMS instead of Wordpress. I disagree with that because the simple admin panel is a joy to work with. The markdown flavoured editor is lovely too. 

The main reason I selected Kirby was the immense flexibility it offers. I can have whatever fields I like on a content type, which is very similar to [Umbraco](http://umbraco.com/). I can add fields without having to create custom post-types with added <abbr title="Advanced Custom Fields">ACF</abbr> like I did with Wordpress. I’m looking forward to harnessing the power that Kirby offers me down the line.

The [documentation]( http://getkirby.com/docs) and [cheatsheet](http://getkirby.com/docs/cheatsheet) are fantastically useful too.

### Closing Thoughts

I’m hopeful that this new design is going to help me achieve what I want I out of my personal site. Hopefully you like it too! 
